<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Miscellaneous Verses</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="miscellaneous-verses" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Miscellaneous Verses</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Or,<br/>
				Reflections on the State of My Mind During My First Convictions; Of the Necessity of Believing the Truth, and Experiencing the Inestimable Benefits of Christianity.</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>Well may I say my life has been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One scene of sorrow and of pain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From early days I griefs have known,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as I grew my griefs have grown:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dangers were always in my path;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fear of wrath, and sometimes death;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While pale dejection in me reign’d</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I often wept, by grief constrain’d.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When taken from my native land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By an unjust and cruel band,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How did uncommon dread prevail!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My sighs no more I could conceal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“To ease my mind I often strove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tried my trouble to remove:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sung, and utter’d sighs between⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assay’d to stifle guilt with sin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But O! not all that I could do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would stop the current of my woe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conviction still my vileness show’d;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How great my guilt⁠—how lost from God!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Prevented, that I could not die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor might to one kind refuge fly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An orphan state I had to mourn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forsook by all, and left forlorn.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those who beheld my downcast mien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could not guess at my woes unseen:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They by appearance could not know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The troubles that I waded through.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Lust, anger, blasphemy, and pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With legions of such ills beside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Troubled my thoughts,” while doubts and fears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clouded and darken’d most my years.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sighs now no more would be confin’d⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They breath’d the trouble of my mind:”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wish’d for death, but check’d the word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And often pray’d unto the Lord.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unhappy, more than some on earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought the place that gave me birth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strange thoughts oppress’d⁠—while I replied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why not in Ethiopia died?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And why thus spared, nigh to hell?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God only knew⁠—I could not tell!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A tott’ring fence, a bowing wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>thought myself ere since the fall.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Oft times I mused, nigh despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While birds melodious fill’d the air:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrice happy songsters, ever free,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How bless’d were they compar’d to me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus all things added to my pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While grief compell’d me to complain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sable clouds began to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My mind grew darker than the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The English nation call’d to leave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How did my breast with sorrows heave!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I long’d for rest⁠—cried “Help me, Lord!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some mitigation, Lord, afford!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet on, dejected, still I went⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heart-throbbing woes within were pent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor land, nor sea, could comfort give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing my anxious mind relieve.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Weary with travail, yet unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all but God and self alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Numerous months for peace I strove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And numerous foes I had to prove.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Inur’d to dangers, griefs, and woes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Train’d up ’midst perils, deaths, and foes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said “Must it thus ever be?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No quiet is permitted me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hard hap, and more than heavy lot!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pray’d to God “Forget me not⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thou ordain’st willing I’ll bear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But O! deliver from despair!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strivings and wrestlings seem’d in vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing I did could ease my pain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then gave I up my works and will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess’d and own’d my doom was hell!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like some poor pris’ner at the bar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conscious of guilt, of sin and fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arraign’d, and self-condemned, I stood⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Lost in the world, and in my blood!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet here, ’midst blackest clouds confin’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A beam from Christ, the daystar, shin’d;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely, thought I, if Jesus please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He can at once sign my release.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I, ignorant of his righteousness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set up my labours in its place;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Forgot for why his blood was shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pray’d and fasted in its stead.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He dy’d for sinners⁠—I am one!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might not his blood for me atone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tho’ I am nothing else but sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet surely he can make me clean!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus light came in, and I believ’d;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself forgot, and help receiv’d!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Saviour then I know I found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, eas’d from guilt, no more I groan’d.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, happy hour, in which I ceas’d</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mourn, for then I found a rest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul and Christ were now as one⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy light, O Jesus, in me shone!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bless’d be thy name, for now I know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I and my works can nothing do;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Lord alone can ransom man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this the spotless Lamb was slain!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When sacrifices, works, and pray’r,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prov’d vain, and ineffectual were,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Lo, then I come!” the Saviour cry’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, bleeding, bow’d his head and dy’d!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He dy’d for all who ever saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No help in them, nor by the law:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I this have seen; and gladly own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Salvation is by Christ alone!”<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a></span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
